The Colombian experience also highlights the problems with using restrictive criteria for identifying those in need of assistance, and the protection gap that resulted (Figure 7). While the government announced assistance relatively rapidly −before the end of March− and added transfers as the quarantine was extended -the way it determined recipients had a negative impact on reach. One report identified 1.9 million poor and vulnerable households that just missed the threshold for eligibility, but are in need of government assistance (Cárdenas and Martínez, 2020). Government officials have pointed to important achievements with the Sisbén database; for example, through receiving the IS transfer, 740 000 people now have bank accounts. However, problems with the database have slowed down the ability of the government to reach even all the intended recipients, let alone those in need of assistance who were not included: by the end of June, 600,000 people had still not been reached, for a variety of reasons, driving officials to go find the individuals in person at their homes, rather than through electronic means.178 

The government was as of early July 2020 seeking to update and improve the database. At least part of the problem appears to be that prior to the pandemic, people had been hesitant to register updates in the Sisbén database due to fear of disqualifying for means-tested assistance.179 However, as of the end of July there was no way for a person to self-identify and apply for the IS transfer assistance.180 The only way for a person in need to be considered for inclusion was to apply to be evaluated for the Sisbén database, which requires a visit to the Sisbén municipal office and a request for an interview. The interviewer then goes to the applicant’s home at an agreed-up time to conduct the interview.181 Such a mechanism is unlikely to be fast or feasible during a pandemic-induced quarantine. Given the small amount of the transfer, and the pre-determined and restrictive reach, the program to date is neither inclusive nor sufficient. 

Cities in Colombia have moved to fill in some of the gaps in national assistance. Bogotá provided additional cash and in-kind assistance to poor and vulnerable households, with the goal of enabling a family of four to meet their basic necessities during the quarantine. Such aid reached 337,000 households by late May, but here also the government determined the beneficiaries.182 Medellín, on the other hand, created a mechanism by which people could themselves determine if they needed assistance, and electronically apply for aid.183 By mid-April, 130 000 households had registered for and received aid this way, many of them not registered in any other government programs, and by mid- May, 300,000 households had received aid. Such a demand-driven approach was identified by the Mayor of Medellín as the most efficient way of identifying those in need and delivering assistance.184