“Violence occurs in gathering and dark places, water distribution points and the reception section, especially during access to water, where some receive large quantities of water without restrictions, leading to increased problems that amount to beatings in front of water tanks. Women are insulted and beaten.” (Adolescent boy from Al Hool sub district Al Hasakah governorate)The violence that women and girls experience at water distribution points is mostly verbal and physical violence. While lack of water has forced some camp residents in north-east Syria to bathe in dams, where numerous GBV risks are posed for women and girls, such as mixing with men and boys as they bathe. If men and boys know when they bathe, they can be assaulted on the way, during bathing or upon their return from the dams. Many participants noted the distance from water tanks that they must walk in order to obtain water. Water must be obtained several times a day for drinking, cooking and bathing, with women and girls being the primary household members to secure water for family needs. Thus, women and girls are placed at risk of sexual and physical violence while walking such long distances, as water is needed in the early morning as well as in the evening, when it is often dark. There is a perceived lack of standards for hygiene distribution, as vulnerable persons, such as children, older people and persons with disabilities do not receive adequate distributions. Respondents also noted that women and girls experience sexual harassment when they fetch water. Furthermore, the gender disaggregated WASH overview shows that 45% of all assessed households reported that toilets shared by four or more households were not segregated by sex, with higher percentages for Al Hasakeh (74%), Ar Raqqa (59%) and Deir ez Zor (51%), while 54% of all assessed households reported at least one protection issue related to toilet facilities available in camps and sites, such as harassment due to lack of privacy, poor lighting and lack of locks.