) Access to livelihoods Venezuelans reported in the FGDs and KII that they work more hours and receive less salaries than the Guyanese. Some returning Guyanese complained about the labor conditions they have encountered since their return from Venezuela. According to them, they work more than 8 hours, are not allowed to take any breaks, and are paid G$1,050 (5USD) per day. In Port Kaituma and Mabaruma some Venezuelan women are living with their families and work in shops or were looking for a job. Some women have experienced sexual harassment in the workplace by their employers. They touch them, say obscene things to them and ask for sexual favors. Some try to find another job elsewhere. One of the Venezuelan participants working in a shop mentioned that she asked her employer to increase the daily wages, instead, the employer asked for sexual favors. She then had to find another job. The fact that most Venezuelans speak only Spanish and lack professional references in Guyana combined with the fact that their qualifications may not be recognized has been a barrier for them to finding decent work and reporting any incidents to the local police. Therefore, many Venezuelans and even Guyanese returnees end up working in places where they are more likely to be exploited or verbally and physically abused by employers or co-workers. In general, participants in the FGD mentioned that the cost of living in Guyana is very high compared to the minimum wage, for example the minimum wage is G$42,022 (200 US dollars) and the cost of rent/month is around G$63,033 (300 US dollars). At least 3 out of 5 men in Bartica were self-employed or worked at a restaurant or in a mine. Many are underpaid or work minimum hours per week so their salaries are insufficient to maintain themselves while in Bartica, thus making it impossible to maintain their families in Venezuela. In Mabaruma, Venezuelan men are also taken to the mines to work there; however, they said that they are being exploited; working many hours and getting paid less than the offer received or sometimes they are not even paid for their hard work. They are also told that they need to stay one month and half in the mines before they can leave. According to them, Venezuelans are not aware of their labor rights and do not know where to seek assistance. This is causing a lot of distress to the Venezuelans. Another issue mentioned was not being allowed to have access to bank accounts from local banks. As a result, instead of saving towards a better future, men are forced to spend more with the intention of future resale or save in unsecure locations. Venezuelan men expressed their interest in obtaining residence permits in order to be able to access formal economic activities and avoid being exploited at work. They would also like to obtain certification in desired courses.