iii. Children In FGDs in Bartica and Port Kaituma, it was shared that Venezuelan children have on occasion been bullied in schools based on their nationality. They are also discriminated by Guyanese children when they do not have the resources to pay for the school uniforms, shoes, etc. Authorities in Port Kaituma expressed their concerns about an increasing number of children that are not enrolled in schools. The local authorities in Bartica mentioned that a total of 15 students of secondary school age have been assisted by the Government of Guyana with uniforms, school meals, books and transportation. Efforts are being made to conduct an assessment to obtain statistical data on the number of children not currently enrolled in school and to ensure that they too are assisted. Authorities are also in the process of constructing a new facility in Itaren Bam to house these new students and to reduce the cost of rent. According to information provided by the Senior School Welfare Officer from the Ministry of Education in Mabaruma, there are currently 108 Venezuelan children enrolled in schools in the Mabaruma area: 46 at Mabaruma Primary School; 36 at Wauna Primary School; and 26 at Whitewater Primary School. Of these numbers 45 are males enrolled and 63 are females enrolled. The language barrier has created a challenge in responding to any psycho-social support needs of Venezuelan students. Identified potential cases requiring support are being referred to the Welfare Officer. The education sector in this area has had no reported cases of GBV involving Venezuelan students. However, cases of GBV involving children of the host community are known to be occurring but are not being reported. If the incident is reported such cases are very difficult to prosecute due to challenges in locating GBV survivors and perpetrators. Cases of pregnancies among girls as young as 12 years have been reported. There were reports shared at the FGDs of Venezuelan adolescent girls between 16 and 17 years old being victims of trafficking in persons in bars and brothels in Guyana, particularly in the mining areas. These adolescents usually travel alone and use fake identification cards to enter Guyana. Some children have been seen begging and involved in child labor in the towns and also in the mines. Incidents of parents mistreating their children and forcing them to work were shared in the FGD in Port Kaituma. However, no formal reports have been made to the Child Care Protection Officer in this location. There were reports also of incidents of sexual violence against Venezuelan girls and the various challenges faced by the parents in reporting these incidents to the police and having the alleged perpetrators brought to justice.