Ecuador’s government did not, unlike in other countries, use the existing non-contributory program to deliver additional cash assistance. It appears, though, that existing recipients continued to receive their regular monthly transfers.185 The government instead announced on March 20th a cash transfer, the Family Protection Bonus, for 400,000 individuals and households with no income due to the pandemic. A week later, on March 27th, the bonus was formalized in an executive decree. It provided two US$ 60 transfers, for April and May, to 400 000 households affiliated with two government registries (rural social security and unpaid domestic work) and with a household income below minimum wage. Households that received any other government transfers (for example, the human development bonus) were ineligible.186 The government pre-selected the recipients, and began distribution of these transfers on April 1st. Eligible individuals could check online to see if they were recipients but could not apply for it. By April 24th, 352,000 of the original recipients had collected the April transfer of US$ 60 dollars, and before mid-May, the number had reached over 400,000, of whom 88% were women, according to government data.187 On April 10th, the government announced an additional 550,000 recipients for this two-time cash transfer, increasing the total reach to 950 000 individuals. This expansion was financed by the Inter- American Development Bank. Given the extremely limited fiscal space, the President at the same time announced his solidarity tax plan, to temporarily tax profits and high-income earners, and with which he planned to broaden social assistance, including extending the Family Protection transfer to an additional one million people, thus altogether reaching two million people.188 The solidarity tax raised strong opposition, and failed in Congress, as mentioned above. The extension of the IADB-financed Family Protection Bonus was formalized in an executive decree on April 24th.189 The recipients for this extension were selected based on the government’s social registry and an inter-ministerial committee.190 To avoid additional movement and lines during the pandemic, the government established a one-time transfer of US$ 120 dollars for this group. The plan was to extend this transfer to all recipients between May 1st and June 30th. At the end of April, the government provided a webpage where people could check to see if they had been selected as recipients. On May 14th, two weeks behind schedule, the government announced that the distribution of the 120-dollar transfer to the second group of recipients would begin. Recipients could collect their transfer on dates determined by the last number of their identity card; moreover, recipients were divided into two groups: the first could collect starting May 15th, and the second group, starting June 1st.191 No information was reported on how many had received the transfer by the end of July, but the government webpage still listed locations at which recipients could collect it at.192 As per Figures 6 to 9, the breadth and sufficiency of transfer in Ecuador are low.