(Syria background) Syria has historically been a strong agrarian economy. Much of the country’s cropland lies in the north-east, north and central parts of the country, including notably the governorates of Al-Hasakeh, Ar-Raqqa, Aleppo, Hama, Homs, and Rural Damascus. Agriculture in the western governorates of Lattakia, Tartous and Idleb is known to largely centre on citrus fruits, apples, olives and vegetable cultivation. While the Badia region, a stretch of semi-arid land in central Syria covering around 55 percent of the country, is primarily used for livestock grazing.While Syria cultivates a number of crops; namely barley, cotton, tobacco, sugar beet, lentils, chickpeas, fava beans, peas, vegetables, citrus fruits, olives and herbs, its main staple is wheat. Up to 40 percent of wheat grain is cultivated in Al-Hasakeh governorate, with Ar-Raqqa, Aleppo, Hama and Homs governorates contributing much of the remaining 60 percent. Some wheat is also cultivated in Rural Damascus governorate and in the southern governorates of Dar’a and Quneitra and in the irrigated land of Deir-ez-Zor governorate. As a result, much of the wheat trade flow goes from northeast and northern parts of the country towards western and southern Syria. Syria is currently a wheat deficit country, meaning it does not produce enough wheat annually to meet its own needs. In 2019, wheat production was 2.2 million tonnes, below the estimated total utilization requirement of 4.5 million tonnes (of which 3.5 million tonnes is for food use) and below the 4.1 million tonnes pre-crisis (2002-11) national average production level. In 2020, it is estimated that wheat production in Syria will be around 2.8 million tonnes with only around 0.8 million tonnes produced in GoS controlled areas.Syria heavily depends on markets for its food security. Already in 2010 over 50 percent of Syrians were reported to be living in urban areas, making markets essential in providing Syrians with their food needs. In 2019, 89 percent of Syrians reported markets as their main source of food.