a) Access to health care Health care is free of charge in hospitals in Guyana, regardless of the migratory status that the person has and is accessible to everyone without discrimination or prejudice. If Venezuelan women go to a clinic or a private doctor then services are provided for a fee. Medicines are also provided for free in hospitals; however, if the medicines are not available in the hospitals, patients must buy them from pharmacies. Services are also available to Warao indigenous community members whenever they need to. Data collection of persons accessing health care services is not disaggregated by nationality, but only by age and gender. No information campaigns in Spanish on available health services, health care and sexual and reproductive health (SRH) have taken place. Most of the participants in the FGDs expressed interest in receiving information on SRH, including prevention and treatment of HIV and other sexually transmitted infections (STI). Similarly, the Ministry of Indigenous People´s Affairs in Marabuma expressed the need for information dissemination and community sensitization programmes with the members of the Warao indigenous community on the same topics. Some authorities in the locations visited as part of the rapid GBV assessment, believe that the healthcare system is overburdened due to the influx of Venezuelans and returning Guyanese. Authorities in Mabaruma believe that the presence of Venezuelans brings health and security risks, especially those engaged in survival sex and those temporarily staying at the dock without proper shelter, cooking and WASH facilities. They are using the same dark waters for drinking, cooking and bathing. Lack of potable water is a major problem for residents. According to information collected throughout the rapid GBV assessment, pregnant women are not accessing medical services on a regular basis, mainly due to lack of information that services are free of charge and fear of detention when they do not have their temporary resident permit. Other Venezuelan women mentioned that they do not approach the services because social workers in health facilities treat them as criminals and discriminate against those engaged in survival sex. In Port Kaituma, there is one hospital and the two doctors mentioned an increase in the Venezuelan presence about one and a half years ago. There, Venezuelans access free of cost health services and one female doctor is able to communicate with them in Spanish. An average of 15 Venezuelan women present themselves to the health centers weekly. The services that are usually accessed include vaccinations upon arrival to Port Kaituma, labor and delivery, and malaria treatment. Incidence of diarrhea and tuberculosis is rising. Currently the health facility knows of two confirmed cases of multidrug resistant tuberculosis. They facility has received requests for STI testing and they have noticed an increase in demand for condoms. They also reported a number of cases of vaginal infection. Birth control is available but currently they do not have implants. In Port Kaituma, the hospital does not offer surgical or pediatric services. It was also mentioned that information campaigns on available health services and sexual and reproductive health (SRH) in Spanish have not taken place in the location. IEC materials at the hospital are not available in Spanish. Insufficient medical supplies to meet the needs of the host community and the Venezuelans is an ongoing challange. The hospital has seen cases of GBV, including among Venezuelans. According to the local authorities, counselling sessions were previously conducted and condoms previously distributed under an IOM HIV-AIDS project that targeted high risk segments of the population. Such initiatives are no longer operational at Port Kaituma.