The cases in which migrants can be excluded from entry or deported were expanded by the DNU 70/20173. Originally, the Migration Act established that migrants with final convictions for serious crimes that amounted to three years of custody could be subject to exclusion from entry or deportation. With the adoption of the DNU 70/2017, exclusions and deportations now extend to migrants with any custodial criminal record, no matter how many years of conviction the crime amounts to. Additionally, it allows for the deportation of migrants whose convictions are not final, violating the principle of presumption of innocence. The deportation procedure introduced by the DNU 70/2017 shortens the timeframe and can be applied to any foreigner without properly taking into consideration his/her particular circumstance. Under this new procedure, whether the person has family or roots in the country does not prevent the National Migration Office from carrying out the deportations4. Once the deportation order is issued, the new timeframe gives the person only three days to challenge the administrative decision, and, if this challenge is rejected, only three more days to dispute the rejection in court. The reduction of the timeframe –which was originally of fifteen days– directly impacts on the capacity of migrants to exercise their right to appeal. In addition, the State has now no obligation to provide free legal aid. Instead, the person has to ask for a public defense lawyer and must prove the lack of economic means –all of that within the three-day timeframe. The DNU 70/2017 also removed the guarantee that the Migration Act had introduced allowing administrative decisions to be subject to review when there had been errors, omissions or manifest arbitrariness, violations to due process or when new solid facts justified the revision5. The way in which this ruling was introduced was also problematic, leading to the DNU 70/2017 being deemed unconstitutional in March 20176. The Executive challenged this decision and since 2018 the case awaits consideration by the National Supreme Court. Meanwhile, the DNU 70/2017 is still being applied and continues to reinforce a false paradigm that links migration to crime. Since the adoption of the DNU, deportation procedures have alarmed increased7 while programs dedicated to facilitating the regularization of migrants have been cancelled8 and a complex new digital system combined with expensive fees are creating many barriers for the access to regularization9.