2.3 FAMILY SEPARATION Forced situations of family separation can lead to serious violations of the rights to family unity, identity, and personal integrity. These effects become more pressing and therefore more urgent to prevent and remedy in the case of children, where the damage caused by separation can become irreparable. As a result, the international duty of the States to grant special protection to children is especially relevant. In spite of this, the DNU 70/2017 introduced a restriction to the family unity criterion that, as an exemption, may allow a person to remain in the country despite having a deportation order issued against him/her20. With this a, family unit has become an exception to deportation orders at the sole discretion of the National Migrations Office. This decision can -and should- be revised by the Judiciary when appealed by migrants. However, in many cases of appealed deportation orders involving family separation documented by Amnesty International and other local organizations (see Appendix), the Judiciary has limited itself to confirm the National Migration Office’s discretion to decide whether or not to apply the family unit criterion as an exemption to deportation. In this regard, the Committee on the Rights of the Child has recently taken a stance on how the regulatory changes introduced can impact on family unity and the best interest of the children: “The Committee is concerned about the continued application of the DNU 70/2017, despite it being deemed unconstitutional, and its potential negative impact on family unity and the best interests of migrant children. The Committee urges the State party to repeal DNU 70/2017 in order to ensure that, in migration cases, the right of a child to have his or her best interests taken as a primary consideration is upheld, while family unity is preserved.”21 By curtailing the analysis of the rights to family unity and reunification to the exclusive and discretionary evaluation of the Executive branch, the State is violating its obligations to comprehensively assess each situation on a case-by-case basis and with due consideration of the rights and interests at stake. The cases described in the Appendix are not extensive, but are dramatic examples that serve to illustrate how the State’s shift in its migration policy is separating families and causing irreversible harm on children.