Nutrition In July-August, UNICEF and partners screened 23,188 children under five. A total of 231 children identified with acute malnutrition without complications were treated using the CMAM approach. Based on the severity and medical condition of each child, CMAM support included medical and nutritional monitoring, provision of ready-to-use therapeutic food (RUTF), and family support to adopt key practices in WASH, health and nutrition, to mitigate further risks for complications and relapses. UNICEF has supported the active participation of health workers of the ambulatory primary health services to serve as key actors and facilitators for the inclusion of nutritional attention into the regular child health services provided by MoH and implementing partners. 3 Additionally, during the reporting period, 6,795 children between 6 and 59 months and pregnant and lactating women (PLW) received deworming treatment; 3,250 children under five and PLW received micronutrient supplementation; and 3,571 children received nutrition supplementation to prevent acute malnutrition. Following up on UNICEF’s capacity building support which initiated in March 2019 for the 24 states, 475 health professionals participated in 13 UNICEF supported nutrition training workshops conducted in the states of Carabobo, La Guaira, Portuguesa, Yaracuy and Zulia in August. The trained health professionals included 47 doctors, 10 paediatricians, 123 nurses, eight nutritionists and dietitians, and 287 health technicians, volunteers and social workers. The workshops focused on strengthening capacities in anthropometric screening to improve nutrition attention through key nutrition interventions (i.e., anthropometric measures and nutrition diagnosis, essential nutritional interventions, and management of children with uncomplicated and complicated acute malnutrition) in prioritized primary health and nutrition services. During the reporting period, 38 health professionals identified by 20 government health institutions in 15 states 5 participated in a training workshop conducted by UNICEF and the Nutrition Institute for Central America and Panama (INCAP by its Spanish acronym). This workshop complemented an online training of trainers (ToT) course on Nutritional Assessment and Response for Children under 5 and PLW conducted from July 9 to August 16. It is expected that these trained health professionals replicate the training sessions for 500 health workers at the municipal level by mid-October. In August, new agreements were signed between UNICEF and local health authorities in the states of La Guaira, Carabobo, Yaracuy, Portuguesa and Zulia to provide nutritional assistance to 143,794 children under five and PLW between September and January 2020. In order to meet this commitment, during the reporting period UNICEF delivered nutrition supplies to primary health centres in these states. Supplies delivered will support the micronutrient supplementation of 132,000 children under five and 11,380 PLW; deworming of 115,032 children between 24-59 months and PLW; the preventive management of acute malnutrition of 23,000 children at risk; and treatment of 1,000 children with acute malnutrition without complications.