d) Access to justice In FGD sessions, both Venezuelan and Guyanese women indicated not reporting incidents of violence and criminality to the police for a variety of reasons. These include a lack of trust in the police in Guyana, language barriers, and the perception that police will request payment of approximately 20,000 Guyanese dollars (96USD) per incident. When asked about submitting reports on GBV incidents, Venezuelan women mentioned that these are not reported to the police as, allegedly, the police fails to conduct impartial criminal investigations against Venezuelans. They added that they also fear to be questioned, detained and deported, or to be subjected to retaliation by perpetrators of GBV. Additionally, information was shared in some of the FGD on serious criminal incidents allegedly committed by Guyanese policemen against Venezuelan women. In Port Kaituma, the police reported receiving no reports of incidents of sexual violence, but mostly reports on cell phone theft by Venezuelans. The police station currently has two (2) female police officers to assist in addressing any reports made by Venezuelan women. According to the police officer in charge, there are some officers in the station who are able to understand Spanish. He added that it is not required to have an identity card or a temporary stay permit to report GBV incidents. He said that once the report is done, the survivor is escorted to the hospital to have a physical examination and receive proper treatment. The doctor has the obligation to report to the police if an incident of sexual violence has occurred. He could not confirm if Post Exposure Preventive (PEP) kits and psychosocial support are available at the hospital. Probation officers stationed within the region provide some limited amount of psycho-social support; however, there are no psychologist or psycho- social services available in Port Kaituma. He mentioned that hospitals in Georgetown have better capacity to respond to incidents of sexual violence. In Mabaruma, there are perceptions within the police that Venezuelans have started to create a negative impact on Mabaruma and its neighboring communities. Concerns were expressed about Venezuelans not blending into the host community, involvement in a small number of petty larcenies and sex work. The number of assaults has increased as well as the number of Venezuelans arriving on a daily basis, according to the police inspector. The language barrier and the constant flow of Venezuelans coming and going are a challenge for the police in adequately taking reports of GBV. The police inspector noted that no reports of GBV involving Venezuelans have been received